AI advancements future of tech industry. What is that you're looking at? Software. So AI will create an explosion of innovation. Explosion of innovation. Best of Rotox Full podcast Do watch it. Considering you as one of the top leaders in tech industry in India with this advancement of artificial intelligence. AI advancements future of tech industry. What is that you're looking at and any opportunities that you are looking at? Opportunities? Yeah. AI is technology. That tech industry. Every industry will change it. See today historically innovations there are innovations on the creation. But the innovations on the distribution Internet it changed the innovations on the distribution or take movies or audio was the distribution method. It's just a distribution mechanism. A song. So last 20, 30 years ease of distribution. Even movies movie creation creation time. Marlith Gani maybe productivity improve. But nothing major. But movie distribution time, you know. Okay sir, you can get to millions of users because OTT and YouTube and all of that distribution impact technology change distribution side for the first time, AI is now going to change the creation process. For example, now oka text prompt you can create a song. Create a song on this particular style. Now creation time will be shrunk significantly. AI will create it and then movies you can get to it. So creation time will significantly shrink. Now that applies not just in the film or music industry, in the software industry too. So software AI now can write code maybe because software music creation. So AI will create an explosion of innovation technology Explosion of innovation. Because technology. There's going to be an explosion of innovation, right? And AI any other technology put explosion of innovation is going to come and that will disrupt not just the. The. The other industries, not just the technology industry because software but other industries, adjacent industries too. But now perspective. AI is only part of the disruption. AI is only. AI is the brain, right? But there's a body that is coming at the robotics AI plus robotics, particularly humanoids. That is where the real disruption is coming from. I think next 10, 20 years is going to be extremely exciting as a technologist and also extremely scary at the same time. I'm excited about AI. So that's where the previous markets, previous disruptions, disruptions, E disruption completely different. But marketing is way ahead of the hype, way ahead of the reality. The hype is way ahead of the reality at this point. So. But it's an exciting technology. How to choose a co founder question? If you need to answer because you have seen a bad experience to an extent, of course that's a learning what you call similar mindset. If you need to answer that question. Philosophical alignment is the key then everything else has fallen in place. Okay, I want to exit, I want to take it for the long run. There's a disagreement, a philosophical alignment. Then everything else will fall in place. That is the main key point. Okay, thanks for watching the clip. Full podcast with Aman Kunte. Watch it here.