Did you know that over 5 million podcasts exist, but more than half fail after just three episodes? But this is actually a huge opportunity because currently there's 460 million people who listen to podcasts on a daily basis. And if you can stick with your podcast for more than three episodes, you're already ahead of 50% of all podcasts in the world. And to be honest, one of the biggest mistakes that I've seen new podcasters make is overcomplicating their setup. So in today's video, my goal is to show you the easiest way to start a podcast. I'll break down what gear is actually worth buying in order to help set you up for success with your podcasting journey. So let's get into section one, where I want to talk about what I think is the simplest, most basic podcasting setup to get started with. So to get started, you really only need two things. Number one is obviously a microphone of some sort. And number two is just a way to record and edit the audio from your microphone. Now, when it comes to the microphones, there's a whole range of different types of microphones out there. The type that I recommend is commonly known as podcasting microphones, is also known as dynamic microphones. But these are generally what I recommend getting started with. I personally highly recommend getting a USB powered microphone because they're really simple plug and play. You can just plug them directly into a computer without any extra equipment and you're good to go. I highly recommend The Rode PodMic USB, that's a really great mic. Or the Shure MV7 plus, that's also another really great USB mic. Now if you want a little bit more control over the audio quality, then you could look into getting an XLR mic rather than just a USB mic. XLR is basically just an audio specific cable type, and you generally get higher quality audio through XLR than usb. The thing to keep in mind if you want to go down the XLR route is that you'll need an audio interface to convert the XLR signal into USB so that you can plug it into your computer and record. But if you're just getting started, this honestly isn't necessary and I would recommend just getting a USB mic. Now the second thing, let's talk about how to actually record the audio and then edit it. And to me, there's kind of two main ways to do this. There's the full manual method or there's the semi automatic method. So option one, the manual method. I don't really recommend this because it's a lot of work and a lot of effort. And this is one of the biggest things that stops people from continuing past those three podcast episodes. Because trust me, if your podcast is too much effort, you're going to give up. So what you can do is record your USB mic directly into a program like Audacity or GarageBand. Then you've got the entire recording in a single file. However, this obviously requires a lot of manual editing and generally it also requires adding some effects like adjusting the volume, adding compression, things like that, that aren't necessarily that beginner friendly. And manual editing is quite time consuming, which again is another why people often quit. So I definitely recommend option two, which is a semi automated recording style. And this is what I personally do with my own podcast. I record straight into a platform called Riverside because it really simplifies the entire recording and editing process. So with Riverside, all I have to do is plug in my USB mic to my computer, open up my Riverside studio on my web browser, select my microphone, and then I can just start recording. Plus, if your podcast involves more than one person, then you can just send them a link to join your studio and then they can join from their own computer using their own microphone microphone from anywhere in the world, and you can record a podcast completely remotely. Now, this is so much better for a whole bunch of reasons. Number one, you don't have to sync anything. Everything gets recorded directly into Riverside at full quality. It will also automatically edit your audio for you, which saves you a lot of work in solving volume issues. Then, when it comes to actually editing your podcast, there's a whole inbuilt editor in Riverside that has a whole bunch of AI tools, including transcript based editing and even ways to automatically edit your entire podcast using AI. And then finally, you can directly publish from Riverside to platforms like Spotify to make the entire process really seamless. So that's really all you need to get started with podcasting. However, there's been a huge surge in the last few years of video podcasts. So in this next section I wanna talk about some upgrades that you can make to your podcast to make it better quality, more engaging, and hopefully more successful. Now, I personally highly recommend recording your podcast in a video format. Again, this is what I personally do, but the reason I do is because like I mentioned, there's a huge shift towards the popularity of video podcasts. 42% of US adults now prefer video podcasts over audio podcasts, which is up from just 32% in 2022. And according to Spotify, video podcasts have grown by 70% year on year on their platform. Plus, video is generally more engaging than just audio. This also means it's easier to share clips from your podcasts on platforms like TikTok or Instagram. Plus, if you're using Riverside, it's actually really easy to do this with a feature called Magic Clips. What this does is it sorts through your AI transcript script of your podcast and then it will automatically select segments that it thinks will do really well as short form content. And this is a really quick and easy way to just get a whole bunch of short form clips that you can share on your social media. So let's talk about some actual camera options that you can use to record your podcast. And these all work with the Riverside platform, so you can record your video podcast directly into Riverside. So if you're looking for a budget video option, then you can always use the webcam that's built into your laptop. Now, the downside of this is that they're generally lower quality than external cameras that you can buy. However, if you've already got one, you don't have to pay any extra money. And it's really convenient because you've always got it on you. If you have a bit more money to spend and invest in your podcast, then I highly recommend getting an external webcam. There's some really high quality options out there these days. This is what I personally use for my own podcast. I use obspot webcams, but you can also get cameras from Insta360 for example, and you can often even record in 4K on these types of webcams. Now, if you have a lot more money to spend and you really want the ultimate quality, then you could get something like a mirrorless camera, which is what I'm currently filming this video on. Something like a Sony ZV E1 is really, really high quality. Or even a Sony ZVE10, which is a cheaper option. It will still give you really nice image quality and you can plug these directly into your laptop using a webcam mode. Now that we've covered cameras, there's a couple of other items that you might want to invest in. Number one is a pair of headphones. Now, honestly, these aren't required, especially if you're recording into Riverside, because it has built in noise cancellation to prevent feedback coming from your speakers when your guest is speaking. But if you do want to monitor your audio while you're recording and hear your guest, then there's a couple of options. If you're on a budget, you could just use something like Apple AirPods or wireless earbuds. This is honestly what I generally use because they're not too obvious but they really do the job. Or if you're really wanting to hear maximum audio quality and clarity, you could get external over ear headphones. Something like the Rode NT H one hundreds would do a great job. Lastly, if you're trying to improve the quality of your video podcast, then the number one thing that's going to make the biggest difference is your lighting. Now if you're on a budget, I recommend just trying using natural light. All you have to do is sit in front of an open window to make sure it's not indirect sunlight so it's nice soft, even lighting. Otherwise, I highly recommend getting some sort of soft box with an LED light. Again, this is what I generally personally use and the main advantage is that you get really high quality lighting and you can do it at any time of the day so you're not dependent on recording just when the lighting looks right. All right. Lastly, let's just recap everything that I've gone through. So number one, the best basic setup if you're just getting started with podcasting is to use a simple USB podcasting mic with a semi automatic platform like Riverside to record your podcast. If you're looking for a really high quality intermediate video podcast, then I highly recommend using again a USB podcasting microphone and an external webcam recording into Riverside. Or if you want the ultimate pro quality video podcast, then it might be worth investing into a mirrorless camera or using one that you might have already combined with an XLR podcasting microphone, an audio interface and then plugging all of that directly into Riverside. Now if you do want to try Riverside and get a feel for it and see if it works for your podcast, there's a link in the description where you can sign up for free. And then if you do want to upgrade to a paid subscription, you can use the code Nick20 to get 20% off. So make sure you check that out down below. And if you want to learn more about Riverside, then check out this video here where I take you through all of the editing process in Riverside from start to finish.