So I faced lot of rejection. Even I think I was rejected by most of the companies. But later somehow I got opportunity. But I would say see, rejection comes with lot of, you know, positive things also if you take in that way. So you have to understand first why you got rejected and what was your weaknesses. Eventually all the industries grows. Correct. And it also would have been grown from last 20 year. If we see. So things have been automated and. And it is really useful if we. There are two perspective of each thing. Correct. If you see what is the benefit, then you can see in in a different way. But if you try to understand the. You know, the bad part of that whole thing, then there will be different perspectives. So. Hello everyone. Welcome back to another episode of TheGeekypod with Manas. So in today's episode we have our first guest in this season. I have known them for more than 11 years now. From college to career, we have seen each other grow from pillar to pillar. We started our careers together and most importantly we have been friends for a decade now. They have seven years of experience in the software industry. Both of them are working in reputed multinational product based companies as senior leads. Please welcome my friends Mr. Sumit Kumar and Mr. Monu Mishra. We had a long discussion on various software related topics which you will be hearing in this episode as well. So I have divided this entire session in two episodes. Today's episode being the first one. So without wasting much time, let's start with our today's episode. Enjoy today's episode and don't forget to subscribe to the Geeky Pod. Hi Sumit. Hi Manu. Welcome to the Geeky Pod with Manas. So to start with our discussion. Tell me about a weekday in your life, Sumit. My weekday starts from reaching to office. Definitely. And first of all I check for my logs, sorry updates and email if there is any priority work has come to me or not existing one itself. Meanwhile, in between I interact with my peers. I check with them. They are pretty amazed. I we have to stay around 7 to 8 hours in office nowadays. Previously it was 9 to 10 hours but it has been reduced to 7 to 8 hours office hours. And then we came back to our home and we start doing our meetings and all There are basically two to three meetings every day. Which is which you have to which you cannot attend from your office premises because of their time zone. Maybe some of your peers are working with some of the time zone. So we have to work around two to three hours from our home. Okay. Yeah, so. So it's a Flexible timeline. Either you work from office or you work. Yeah. There is no time restriction over there. There is no coming or going and maintaining maintenance is going on. Nowadays you can go with whenever you want. Even you can come whenever you want. The only central idea you have to be available with means whomever required either for anything or for a short discussion. Sometimes your manager can also come and discuss about what's going on and what should be happening in the future. So for those things also you should be prepared, make yourself available in a smart way that you are only available. Okay. Okay, that's good. It's like everyday life of all the software engineers. Yeah. So yeah Monu, what about your day in the office? So in same way it start with reaching to office and after that have to attend one meeting with my. I mean the project managers and the planning team. And then I have to give the updates after that need to check all the important mails and reply whatever is required immediately. And then I have to start working on my usual stuff like my coding part or developing, testing, whatever is that day task. I need to complete that. Then there will be lunch time, so I'll be hanging out with my team teammates and friends. Nowadays these are less, but somehow I try to make one or two at least. And after that again meetings and little bit discussion about going on issues and what could be better in the project. Internal meeting Sometimes sometime with PMOs and project managers and with other people and in evening same hanging out with friends and colleagues, going for tea, coffee. And then nowadays I also reach home early, little bit like four, 30 or five. And then if required I'll attend meetings in evening as well. So yeah, that's usual nowadays. Right? Right. So all of us, if you remember, all of us were in college, we're happy, we are not worried about our career and we are like in different zone altogether in that time. And after that we started our career together. Now if you look back to your final year college days and you want to suggest something to yourself that as a fresher, what you should have done better than what did already. So what would you suggest yourself going back seven years? I believe for me I don't have any such kind of things coming to my mind when we. When I'm talking about my technical skill and the current work, there can be two aspects, financially and technical goals. So if that is what I am pointing out from technical point of view, I don't have any such things coming to mind. Okay. No, you can, you can think like now from that seven years back to now. The technology has progressed a lot. Right. So you might have done or learned certain languages skill set which you learned after joining your job. First job or second job maybe in that way. Anything that way. Still I would say I don't have anything because during college days whatever I could have done to come into this particular form, I had did I had done up to a particular extent and that is what helped me during throughout my career. Okay. It was not like I was completely blanked while coming into this particular form. So it was good actually over there. Yeah. Something there are already a scope to make much better and better there. I will reduce some marks for you. But overall it was good. Okay, that's great to hear. Yeah. What about. Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. Actually depends upon you your work also what kind of work you are getting into your first or second company or during your initial phase of your career. So I believe I was getting proper work which allowed me to learn lots of new technologies and responsibilities. Also I got a chance to learn about how industry works. So this was how, this is how I keep on updated myself. Okay, so what do you think the programming knowledge will help in the long run or the domain knowledge about a particular industry will help in the long run? These both terms are actually interrelated to each other. If you know only programming language what you are going to implement that will be answered from the domain knowledge actually. So if you want to get more and more progress in your career, you have to keep align these tokens domain and technology. Okay. Okay, that's good. Yeah. Monu, what about you? What would you like to suggest yourself going back in time? Yeah, I think I could have been a little better. I'm not sure about Shumit case because he was already doing those whole thing but I missed it due to, I don't know, lack of interest or I wasn't so much aware of things. But yeah, I. I think I would have done little bit more practice and more command on my programming skills during my initial days. I mean initial company when I joined during those days and even in college also. But I think I missed that opportunity during that time I got the. But some I was not, you know, I was not getting it or I was not interested or there were a lot of destruction, I mean which was distracting me to focus on this thing. But later when I joined my first organization after that I realized yeah, it is necessary thing and I must be having some skill to survive in this field. Okay. So I started focusing and then I eventually got different. Different project, different, different technology and I. I'M not so expert, but I know most of it. Whatever is required to do my daily work. Great. Great. So.